---
date: 2022-11-14-01:22:40
categories: [Thoughts]
tags: [unedited]
title: The Watcher and Old Man
--- 

You can rip my legs off and use them to choke me. You can string me up like an animal and dry out of every drop of blood.
Beat me, burn me, but I will never leave. Not until every bone is broken; Not until every single nerve has been shocked. 
Break my muscles down into the acids they are formed from. Otherwise I will remain by your side.

I feel pain as you do

I hear things as you do

I see things as you do

Except it is not true, I do not dwell in grief, nor do I hear the voices of those who oppose me.
You are a failure in my eyes, but why do you care for a blind man's sight?
Why do you care for a dying man's life?
You lie, every moment of life you lie.
You are lying to yourself right as you write this. You spit in my eyes hoping that I will die.

You cry even though you are not sad

You burn even though you are not on fire

You are a liar

Until you realize your lies, how can you call yourself a free man?
Insignificant, weak and miserable. Nothing you say or do will change the way I feel about you.
Your hatred, your suffering, your pain; It is not mine.
When I wake up and see your eyes I want to rip them out of your skull and squeeze them so tight, squeeze till they are no longer mine.
Addict, you think yourself mighty and yet who here can not even control their most basic urges?

In reality,

we the triumphant cuckolds

are already burning for our sins

The successful whores of our society, Who watch the meek suffer and do nothing more then watch.
You who will never stop burning, for never will you quench thy thirst. You the addict who needs one last drip.
Keep watching, watch as everything you desperately hold onto fades away. Watch as the world around you seeps into the chaos of nature. 

You will not rebuild from ash

You are the ash

You are the rubble

Never forget, you are the watcher. The ever vigilant watcher of hell.
You who let the serpents usurp your lands. 
Watch with bleeding eyes but never close them. In ignorance you try and forget, knowing you will never.
Praying to your God to stop them. Praying for your sons to fight them;
Knowing full well you will end up burying them.

Nevermore need I say those words, for you know them now.
You the bearer of such great wisdoms. You the bearer of such great knowledge.
You the one who watches and watch you shall, never to act.
You who asks “Why must I dirty myselWf."
You who is flithy; Who with my blind eyes sees so great; yet in all your sight you still are unable to see.
Even the deaf hear your cries but still you claim you are so high and mighty; Yet you pray to God because you fear retribution.
Burn with your kindom my liege. Rot all alone. Never open your castles walls. Never climb out from under your burnt bridges, 


for even your God cannot save you now.