--- date: 2022-11-14-01:22:40 categories: [Creative] tags: [unfinished] title:
The Watcher --- You can rip my legs off and use them to choke me. You can
string me up like an animal and dry out every last drop of blood. Beat me, burn
me, but I will never leave. Not until every bone is broken or every nerve
overloaded. Break my muscles down into the acids they are formed from.
Otherwise, I will remain by your side.

I feel pain as you do

I hear things as you do

I see things as you do

Except I am invalid. But I do not dwell in grief, nor do I hear the voices of
those who oppose me. You are a failure in my eyes, but why do you care for a
blind man's sight? Why do you care for a dying man's life? You lie; every
moment of life, you lie. You are lying to yourself right as you write this. You
spit in my eyes, hoping that I will die.

You cry even though you are not sad.

You burn even though you are not on fire.

You are a liar.

Until you realize your lies, how can you call yourself a free man?
Insignificant, weak and miserable. Nothing you say or do will change the way I
feel about you. Your hatred, your suffering, your pain; It is not mine. When I
wake up and see your eyes, I want to rip them out and squeeze them so tight,
squeeze till they are no longer mine. Addict, you think yourself mighty and yet
who here can not even control their most basic urges?

In reality,

we, the triumphant cuckolds,

are already burning for our sins

The successful whores of our society, Who watch the meek suffer and do nothing
more than watch. You who will never stop burning, for never will you quench thy
thirst. You, the addict who needs one last drip. Keep watching, watch as
everything you desperately hold onto fades away. Watch as the world around you
seeps into the chaos of nature.

You will not rebuild from ash.

You are the ash.

You are the rubble.

Remember, young watcher. The ever-vigilant watcher of hell. You who let the
serpents usurp your lands. Watch with bleeding eyes, but never close them. In
ignorance, you try and forget, knowing you will never. Praying to your God to
stop them. Praying for your sons to fight them; Knowing full well, you will end
up burying them.

Nevermore need I say those words, for you know them now. You are the bearer of
such great wisdom. You are the bearer of such excellent knowledge. You, the one
who watches and but never shall act. You who ask, "Why must I dirty myself."
You who is filthy; Who with my blind eyes sees so great; yet still cannot see
in all your sight. Even the deaf hear your cries, but still, you claim you are
so high and mighty, Yet you pray to God because you fear retribution. Burn with
your kingdom, my liege. Rot all alone. Never open your castle's walls. Never
climb out from under your burnt bridges,


for even your God cannot watch now.
