--- title: The Road date: 2022-11-06-01:09:40 categories: [Thoughts] tags:
[unfinished] --- Not being able to calm the mind. At any age, it can cause
repercussions in the future. Taking care of my body required my mind to be
precise. I would become paralyzed with fear if I clutter my head with every
possible outcome. I spent so much time thinking; eventually, I froze in a loop
of inaction. Even if I spent hours thinking about a scenario, this would only
worsen the situation. The severity of this depended on my state of mind.
Generally, I let my fear control me, leading me down dark paths. All these less
fortunate paths caused me to learn a great deal about myself. Every failure due
to inaction, every time I saw myself crumble due to my own inability, made me
realize how important it was to conquer my demons. These helpless states in my
life made me sick; it's not like people will always be there to dig me out of
my own grave. Friends have often helped me out of hell, but I tend to fall back
down.

My critical nature did the reverse of what I thought it did. Being harsh to
yourself would forge greater products. One can develop tremendously by
rebuilding one's ideas. Still, it will not do any good when I become afraid of
criticism. Fear of my own self-criticism could easily paralyze me for life. If
I tunnel vision on the little imperfections of everything, I won't be able to
see the mountain in front of me. Being able to step back is a challenging task.
To see the world for what it is is a difficult task. Being able to climb
through the mountain of your own self-hatred and not fall back down is no easy
task.

The only reason I can now climb forward and never look back at my fear Is
because I now understand that fear does not have to control me. Fear can fuel
just as efficiently as it can clog your engines. It is up to the user, the
person at the wheel, to understand how to use their fuel. I can sit and wait
and wait and wait. One day, no one else will come to the side of the road, and
I will never get back on my path. Therefore, I must take action now before it
is too late. I am the only one who can help me escape hell. The only person who
can get me back on the road is myself.
