---
title: Probably Not Awake
categories: [Thoughts]
tags: [unfinished]
---

You’re probably not awake, but I want to tell you a story. See, I’ve had some
unfortunate luck in my 18 years of surviving. Somewhere down the line, I lost
myself, and I never could find the piece that felt missing. I’ve read countless
books, but the knowledge only brought me more suffering. I threw myself into my
schoolwork and turned my heart off. For a while, I felt numb. The numbness
didn’t beat the pain. I was paralyzed about six years ago, on June 4th, 2016. I
went from being bedridden to a wheelchair to walking normally again. I inspired
my peers. To be honest, I never felt very inspired by myself. I never
understood why people had so much hope in me. A lot of times, I just felt
empty. You may think I should see a psychologist about it, and I would have to
agree, but the only issue is that they could never help me even in the
slightest. I know that because I’ve tried talking to people about my problems,
and they do not seem to understand. Maybe medication could help, but the
emptiness I speak of is more of an abstract philosophical idea. The idea of
Self and how the inner Self is forgotten and hidden away so no one knows what
you really feel. Your vices can hide the pain, but behind every mask is a
broken soul. How does one fix the soul? How does one reach nirvana? True
happiness? I have no clue, but so far, I have found that helping others and
being kind brings back a sense of peace in the turmoil of life. I have lost a
lot, but I feel it is of the utmost importance to still fight because who else
will?
