---
date: 2023-09-22-01:44:40
categories: [Essay]
title: Mars in the Hospital
tag: [uni]
---
<h2 style="text-align:center"> The Experience of Loneliness While Living in Society: Mars in the Hospital </h2>

I remember being in the hospital. My blood was drained into a filtration device
as I spent hours watching movies. The Martian, directed by Ridley Scott, was
the movie that stuck with me after all these years. I felt distant from the
world and its people for a long time. This could be a result of not
communicating with the outside world. Moreover, having to trust others as well
as myself filled me with anxiety. People think The Martian is just another
science fiction blockbuster made for entertainment; however, the real message
is about people's isolation while trying to survive in society.

Martian was one of the most important movies in the 2010s. While nominated by
the Academy for Best Motion Picture, writing, Sound Mixing, and Best Acting.
This recognition of talent is valid. Unfortunately, The Martian did not win a
single Oscar. The Academy did not grasp the relevance of the picture. Nothing
is more relatable than being left to fend for your own on an alien planet,
Confident that no one will save you. Many people experience the same isolation
and societal pressures throughout The Martian.

The world has felt out of reach for an extended period. During the first few
days in the hospital, I felt extremely out of touch with reality. I only saw my
parents a few times before going into a spinal tap surgery. After that, I had a
tube placed into the neck to pump out blood and replace my plasma. It felt like
my old life was being taken away from me, and a new one was being placed in. I
think my parents felt similar when The Director of Mars Operations Vincent
Kapoor found out Mark Watney was still alive; he stated, "He's 50 million miles
away from home. He thinks he's totally alone; he thinks we gave up on him" (The
Martian, 34:09-34:13). I embraced my abandonment of my old self and accepted
the new environment. Both Mark and I, despite the situation, were able to keep
high spirits throughout this period. Mark took steps to obtain communication
with The National Aeronautic and Space Administration (NASA). At the same time,
I only thought about communicating with my peers because of the pressure of
alienation.

Mark Watney could not communicate with the world, whereas I choose not to.
During The Martian, Mark Watney found the Mars rover Pathfinder in an attempt
to contact NASA. I cannot relate to this because I spent most of my time
worrying about myself; I did not want to involve my friends in my illness. I
realize now that this lack of communication was a mistake. Furthermore, If I
had been more open like Mark, I would have found a solution with the people
around me instead of blocking them out. Mark found a solution to his
communication problems by locating the Mars Pathfinder. If I had the same
courageous attitude Mark displayed, I would have been much happier in the long
term. I see now that trusting people is the best way to escape an isolated
situation and thrive in our communities.

Mark Watney and I had to have faith in the people around us and ourselves, even
if we were scared. At the end of The Martian, Mark Watney was giving a lecture
to future astronauts about how he survived on Mars alone for over 500 sols. He
talked about how you can either give up or get to work. That is all it is.
Solving one problem at a time (The Martian, 2:13:15 - 2:14:20). I had a similar
philosophy in the hospital. I took each day one step at a time, trusting that
the people around me would care for me in my time of need. By trying to be more
communicative and counting, I made my recovery accelerate. Mark saved himself
by believing in the people at NASA, and I kept myself by believing in the
nurses, doctors, friends and family who took care of me. With this trust, I
could conquer my seclusive nature and live better in society.

Although The Martian was an extremely entertaining motion picture and box
office success, its value is revealed by speaking to the solitude felt by
everyone in the world. Ridley Scott has created a timeless classic in my eyes
with The Martian. Even though I felt secluded from the culture for an extended
period. I understand now that it was due to a lack of contact with the
surrounding environment. Furthermore, I learned to entrust people around me,
even if I was full of dread. I can finally get up from the filtration device
and experience living in society.

 <h5 style="text-align:center"> Works Cited </h5>

<h6>The Martian (2015) - Awards - IMDb. www.imdb.com,
https://www.imdb.com/title/tt3659388/awards/. Accessed 20 Sept. 2023.</h6>

<h6>The Martian. Directed by Ridley Scott, performances by Matt Damon, Jessica
Chastain and Kristen Wiig, extended cut, 20th Century Fox, 2016.</h6>
