--- categories: [Philosophy] title: Descartes Defects of Soul tag: [uni] ---
The Defects of Descartes Soul: Whether it is Manifestly Impossible to Derive
God From Defects

Descartes believes that the perfection of worldly nature is derived from his
soul. Nevertheless, Descartes's soul could not derive ultimate perfection from
nothingness since that would be "manifestly impossible" (18). However, this led
Descartes to believe that his soul derives from a more excellent nature than
his own. A nature more perfect than Descartes is defined as God(18). God helps
reconcile the imperfections in Descartes' soul. God knows everything and
embodies all the perfections Descartes could think of but could not manifest
himself. Descartes needs God because he is not wholly perfect.

Descartes' argument as to why his soul was not wholly perfect was because a
greater perfection to Descartes was to know rather than doubt(18). Because
Descartes has doubts, he could not reasonably say he was perfect. Perfection
derives from Descartes' nature or the defects of his nature. However, Descartes
could not derive God from his defects because it would be repugnant to state
that God came from defects(19). It would be paradoxical to derive a Being that
is perfect from defects. Because God could not come from Descartes, God must be
outside of Descartes. For all the defects that Descartes has, they would not be
found in God. Therefore, as the most perfect Being, God is the only other truth
Descartes can know.

I think that Descartes' understanding of God helps refine his idea of truth
because it is true that Descartes, as a man, has defects and, therefore, cannot
be God. Moreover, if there were a God, it would imply absolute perfection.
However, I cannot say that Descartes' view that "To derive it [God] from
nothingness was manifestly impossible" is wholly accurate(18). Although I agree
that Descartes can never be eternal, immutable and omniscient, I do not believe
that those are requirements for God(19). Nothingness is not a defect, and it is
a necessary state. Without nothingness, there cannot be any form of God because
God is in a form derived from something and nothing at the same time. This
paradoxical nature of God is repugnant to Descartes because it does not seem
possible for the most perfect being to exist while simultaneously not existing.
It does not make logical sense that God is created from nothing. However, with
something, how can there be everything? If God were everything, then there
would have to be an opposing side to him. That is why I believe that God is in
a state of eternal sorrow to achieve happiness.

Descartes wrote, "I saw that doubt, inconstancy, sorrow, and similar things
could not be part of God's nature since I would be happy to be without them
myself." Descartes believes that because God is perfect, He is absent from
sorrow(19). Because without some form of sorrow, one would not know pleasure.
Furthermore, if God is genuinely Omniscient, they must be eternally sorrowful
to achieve eternal happiness. It is paramount for a perfect being to know both
good and evil to contrast. Descartes would argue that God would be perfect if
he had defects like sorrow. My answer would be that there must be an opposing
force; otherwise, God would have no purpose. The purpose is to explain why
ignorance and knowledge exist. We must first be ignorant of the truth; with
time, we may find the truths of ourselves and God, but first, we must be
ignorant. We reject ourselves and God because we are ignorant of the truths.

Works Cited

Descartes, Ren√©, 1596-1650. A Discourse on Method. Project Gutenberg, 1995.
