--- categories: [Philosophy] title: Descarte's and Zen tag: [uni] ---
Descartes's Path of Enlightenment: Why Nothingness Implies the Existence of
Something

Emptiness is not the same as nothingness. Descartes believes that one cannot
derive something from nothing without being repugnant. However, if one is to
understand the foundations of their existence, being repugnant may be one way
to gain this knowledge. In his Discourse on the Method, Descartes outlines his
road to Enlightenment. However, Descartes accepts that his path is not one that
everyone should walk. In the same sense, Zen scriptures seek not to give
Enlightenment but to show a Method. Both Mahayana Buddhism and Descartes
believe reading and writing cannot instill Enlightenment. Enlightenment cannot
be obtained through senses, for they cannot be trusted. Meditation paves the
path of awakening. For Descartes and Zen, the difference lies in the Method.
Descartes' meditation is used for the mind, whereas Zen Buddhists use
meditation to let go of the mind.

Keywords:  Enlightenment is to know. Zen means to meditate, but action defines
the true meaning of Zen. Nirvana translates as the continual process of letting
go. Bodhisattva is one who reaches the precipice of Nirvana but turns back to
share their compassion with the world. Samsara is the cycle of reincarnation in
the wheel of life and death.

Introduction to Descartes' Fourth Meditation

Descartes' perception of God is that which is more than the human soul. In the
first meditation of the Discourse on the Method, Descartes observes his first
principle: "I think, therefore I am." Descartes is unable to think without the
realization of Self. In this sense, Self means our human reasoning within our
inward eye. Descartes could only explain his first principle as authentic if
there were a higher power since there were things outside his understanding
that only a being more than him could understand. Descartes thought obtaining
knowledge from nothingness was impossible and repugnant. To Descartes,
nothingness cannot derive from God because defects cannot create the ultimate
perfection. The foundation of his epistemology is God and the idea that God is
the one who is beyond the human soul so that which is inexplicable can be
explained through God.


Introduction to Zen

Zen is the path that thrusts all aside and moves directly to its goal. Alan
Watts, the author of The Spirit of Zen, explains that "Zen is a vigorous
attempt to come into direct contact with the truth itself." The truth in Zen is
understanding how connected Seeing that you are in a cycle of life and death is
where the idea of reincarnation comes from. Zen is the understanding that the
ordinary person is a Buddha. When they ask why they do not feel it to be
accurate, the response from a Zen Master is, "Why do you ask the question?".
"Zen was to jolt people out of their intellectual ruts and their conventional
morality."  It did this by posing impossible questions, making a joke out of
metaphysics, thus turning orthodox philosophy upside down. Descartes thought
that meditation is the process of actively thinking over problems and coming to
an understanding on his terms. He finds truth within himself and what he knows.

Zen Buddhists perform Zazen, which is the action of nonthinking, letting go of
your thoughts and senses and not focusing on any one thing but instead allowing
it to come to you. The example given is that of a good driver. They are one
with the car and therefore do not need to think to drive well. Using Zazen, one
does not reflect or sleep but is one with the Buddha-Nature. In this, we find
the ability to answer Koans, which are Japanese paradoxes given to us by Zen
Masters. These Koans can only be solved by meditating and focusing not on the
question but rather living with the Tao. Descartes explains, "I had learned to
think of something more perfect than myself." Where Descartes believes God is
the perfectness beyond the human soul, Zen describes it as the Tao. "You cannot
say something specific about everything."

I think that Descartes is a genuinely profound philosopher ahead of his time.
Descartes understands that reading a book or words spoken is shallow. They can
not be defined as truth because one's truth stems from within. The
understanding of different people and cultures are correct; they are silly
different paths to the same place. We are all headed towards a path to heaven.
We are stuck in this never-ending loop of Samsara, and Descartes built methods
and understandings that got him close to the Enlightenment. I also believe he
is not wrong when describing God as the pillar of his imperfect soul. Zen
Buddhism goes one step further and says that it is not God but the
Buddha-nature that cannot be seen, felt, or understood but is all around us and
in all of us. Where Descartes falls short is his attachment to the idea of a
God. Alan Watts said in his lecture A Finger Pointing at the Moon: "The idea of
God is a finger pointing at Godâ€¦ Most people, instead of following the finger,
suck it for comfort". This encompasses my whole issue with Descartes's
Meditations, for It feels like instead of following with the water of the
world, Descartes is trying to go against it.

Ultimately, if one does not realize they are part of everything, they will
think everything around them is nothingness. However, the world is not nothing;
it is empty of things, but it is full of the Tao, and you have a duty as a
Bodhisattva to spread Dharma and provide Nirvana to everyone. Emptiness is not
the same as nothingness. Descartes believes that you cannot derive something
from nothing without being immoral. However, if one is to understand the
foundations of their existence, being repugnant may be one way to gain this
knowledge. In his Discourse on the Method, Descartes outlines his road to
Enlightenment, but this path is meant for only some. In the same sense,
Mahayana Buddhism scriptures seek not to give Enlightenment but to show one
Method to obtain spiritual freedom. Both Mahayana Buddhism and Descartes
believe that you cannot read into Enlightenment; the truth cannot be obtained
through one's senses, for they cannot be trusted. The path of awakening is
paved by action; the difference lies in the approach. Descartes' meditation is
used for a reason, whereas the Zen Buddhist meditation is used to let go of
reason.

In conclusion, it is not repugnant to derive something from nothing because to
have the notion of nothingness, one must have something to compare it to. In
the same way, philosophers cannot have beliefs without having someone opposing
them. We need our opposites to provide balance to our world. Descartes'
Discourse on the Method provided many insights into his reason, and it is not
my place to say that Descartes was not Enlightened, for every path will lead
there. Zen Buddhism is the path with the least resistance because they go with
it instead of against the water, like Descartes.
