--- categories: [Philosophy] title: Leibniz's Block of Marble tag: [uni] ---
Leibniz’s Marble Block Against Universal Assent

G.W. Leibniz's example of a marble block is essential because it challenges
John Locke's concept of universal assent. Leibniz argues that the truth lies
within the marble block in the shape of Hercules (Leibniz 294). If the marble
block had veins that outlined Hercules, the block would be predisposed to take
that form rather than another. This predisposition is Leibniz's main argument.
Leibniz thinks that a sculptor, given the right tools and time, would
eventually be able to crave something like Hercules (Leibniz 294). Locke would
disagree with Leibniz because the veins are imperceptible. If Locke uses the
marble block as an analogy for the soul, he would argue that one cannot
universally assent to the veins because they are not perceived.

Locke's definition of innate is a universally assented idea. Locke defends
universal assent by using the example of children and idiots to exemplify how
people do not know basic properties without reason (Locke np. 49 dp. 40).
Because Locke believes one needs a reason to know, the imperceptible exists.
Locke would disagree with Leibniz's marble block by claiming that if the
imperceptible veins predispose Hercules, it is only through reason. Locke would
argue that "how can it with any tolerable sense be supposed, that what was
imprinted by nature, as the foundation and guide of our reason, should need
reason to discover it?" (np. 52 dp. 43). Locke's understanding of innateness is
like a foundation of our knowledge (Locke np. 52 dp. 43). Locke would say that
one cannot have an innate property dependent on other reasons because if
innate, it should make the foundation of all our reasons.

Leibniz would counter Locke's understanding of reason with his understanding of
reflection. One can crave away at the marble and polish the figure into the
truth with reflection. Reflection would be the catalyst that leads to more
significant predispositions to the truth of Hercules. Reflection is how Leibniz
would assert that there is no such thing as a completely blank tablet (Leibniz
294). Because one can bring out the cracks with reflection, no stone tablet is
ideally in shape and order. In the same way, no human soul is perfectly blank
at birth. Leibniz uses Locke's idea of reflection as a tool for the sculptor
rather than reason. Furthermore, these veins will give a predisposition to the
marble block. Nevertheless, Locke and Leibniz have many similarities in their
understanding of reflection. Locke and Leibniz believe all ideas come from
sense and reflection.

However, Locke's defence is that one must have some form of reason to know that
something is there consciously. Locke understands that at a certain age, one
comes to reason. At a certain age, the human soul can assert and understand
specific topics and ideas and consent to simple ideas. Locke's furnishing of
the tablet comes from empirical factors, like seeing, hearing, reflecting and
more. However, Locke thinks that the soul starts with nothing, and then one
grows from it (Locke np. 49 dp. 40). This idea of growth, coming to reason and
then realizing ideas are not considered innate by Locke. Even if the veins are
on the marble block, one must realize they were there. Consequently, Locke
would argue that It does not mean the veins are innate because there needs to
be universal assent. Universal assent is the soul being conscious of it from
the very beginning. If one is unaware of these veins on the marble, how can it
be innate in Locke's view? It cannot. So, this is the main point that would
drive a wedge between Locke and Leibniz—universal assent.

John Locke heavily argues in favour of universal assent because if the
imperceptible are innate, then anything the mind can reason about will become
innate. Furthermore, Locke would argue that if Leibniz allows the unconscious
to become innate, it would be impossible to differentiate between innate and
experienced knowledge (Locke np. 49 dp. 40). If Leibniz's understanding is
proper, then it would cause the problem of not knowing the difference between
what is innate and what is not. Locke would argue that all these different
aspects of the mind would become innate, and Leibniz would not be able to
differentiate.

However, Leibniz's main point is that the outline these veins form causes
predispositions. To show that the imperceptible can be innate, Leibniz uses the
waves as an example. Leibniz's idea is that when one goes to the sea, hundreds
of thousands of sounds come from the crash of a wave(Leibniz 295). All these
smaller waves make imperceptible sounds to the ear that make up one crashing
sound(Leibniz 295). However, in that sound, in that wave, there are a hundred
thousand, a million other sounds that make up that one sound that one
perceives.. All of these imperceptible veins create one outline that we are
bound to sense with the help of reflection. The best way to think of reflection
is with another example.

The example I would give to explain Leibniz's position on the innate against
Locke would be a foggy mirror. Locke may argue that a foggy mirror is no longer
a mirror because there is no reflection. Leibniz would counter that the mirror
is more predisposed to reflection because it has innate properties with
polishing. Before one can imagine the mirror and before one can even think of
polishing the mirror. The importance lies in this idea of imperceptibility, in
this idea that it was there before, and obviously, Locke would disagree with
this because he believes in the blank tablet. He would still disagree if the
blank stone tablet had veins because they do not imply universal assent. It all
comes back to universal assent.

The importance of the block of Marble example used by Leibniz is to show that
universal assent cannot define innateness. Leibniz is simply posing the
question of whether it is so that the human soul is so empty that it requires
images of the external world in order for it to fill itself. Leibniz argues
that the external world does not dictate the soul. Because two individuals
cannot wholly be alike they must differ somehow( Leibniz 297). Is the soul that
empty? Is the soul full of nothing (Leibniz 297)? Leibniz does not think so.
Whereas even Locke would say, no, there is some substance to the soul.
Moreover, because there is something there, that implies that there has to be
something innate within the soul. I think Locke may have agreed with each
other. However, they would still argue about universal assent since Leibniz
does not try to prove that the soul can consent. However, he leans into it and
proves that the imperceptible happens around us, and we only see the outline.
With reflection, there is a predisposition toward one way rather than another.

Works Cited

Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz. Preface to the New Essays. The Continental
Rationalists. Electronic Edition, 1703,
https://library-nlx-com.login.ezproxy.library.ualberta.ca/xtf/view?docId=rationalists/rationalists.05.xml;chunk.id=div.leibniz.pes.1047;toc.depth=1;toc.id=div.leibniz.pes.38;brand=default.

John Locke. An Essay Concerning Human Understanding. Book I, Philosophical
Texts. Electronic Edition., 1989,
https://library-nlx-com.login.ezproxy.library.ualberta.ca/xtf/view?docId=lbh/lbh.01.xml;chunk.id=div.britphil.v27.6;toc.depth=1;toc.id=div.britphil.v27.6;brand=default.
