---
title: Collection I
categories: [Thoughts]
tags: [unfinished]
---
**Addiction:**

What are you supposed to do if you're someone like me? I don't have a support
system I feel comfortable falling back onto. I have my friends and family who
are there for me, but I can't really speak to them about my personal issues.
Usually, I don't feel comfortable telling anyone about these bad habits and the
adverse effects they have on my mental health. Partially because I don't
believe anyone cares or wants to know about these underlying problems. But
mainly because I don't dare to tell anyone. Is it a lack of courage in me? Or
is it a denial of acceptance? I don't know why I cannot conquer my addictions.
It feels like the best I can ever hope to achieve is simply making my
addictions into something healthy rather than ridding myself completely. But is
any addiction genuinely beneficial? I guess the greats were addicted to life.
But many great people I admire in history were addicted to power. This power is
something I fear because I know in my heart that I will fall prey to it if I am
not cautious.

**Wealth:**

No amount of money will change the fact that I'm lazy, arrogant, and depressed.
I need to spark change within myself for the sake of myself. I will never reach
my potential if I don't become the man I want to be. Ultimately, no amount of
money will save the people around me. I can provide the inspiration and the
ability to overcome and conquer. I can provide leadership, but first, I must
lead myself.

**Exodus:**

Why does it have to end? Who is in charge of the ship? Lead us back to the
lands and seas, for no soul wants to live in this desolation. Wishful thinking
is all in my head. I thought I lost a great fort but instead a on-looks fasting
ways. I saw a journey and took the road, but the play still needs to do its
acts. I sought out a fury and received a jury of the past.
